---
layout: post
title:  "Melbourne October 2014"
date:   2015-05-01T09:43:34+10:00
---

## [Little Wish Specialty Coffee](http://yelp.com/biz/little-wish-specialty-coffee-melbourne)

Little Wish was too close to Lumo Energy so we mainly went when it was raining or when I'd left home without breakfast.
They brew Code Black beans with a La Marzocco.
During summer they've had cold brew in their fridge.

I enjoyed their vegetarian bagel which was eggplant and salad on a bagel from 5 & Dime.
It came with a coffee for another $2.
I've also liked their croissants.

## [Sweetwater Inn](http://yelp.com/biz/sweetwater-inn-south-yarra-2)

The Sweetwater Inn website underpromised by saying they do their best to provide you with country hospitality.
I'm yet to find a country pub with a menu that's half vegan.

We started with their housemade sausage rolls, a Sweetwater Lager and a Nikki Webster (gin, strawberry, cucumber, lime and soda).
The sausage rolls were a nostalgic mush of vegetables and maybe apple with great pastry and there were plenty of hot sauces.

I followed this with their smoked BBQ vegan chicken.
I loved eating something of this shape and texture, basted with BBQ glaze and gripping my steak knife.
Steak fries and salad were included.

Cass had their vegan rissole sandwich (rissoles darl) with cheese and gravy.
This too was nostalgic and also came with chips and salad.
We finished with a longneck of Coopers.

## [Corner Hotel](http://yelp.com/biz/the-corner-hotel-richmond-2)

I've been to the Corner to see Boris from Japan and Ruins from Tasmania play.
Other times I've been for the rooftop beer garden.

This time was for Veruca Salt.
I've been a fan of Louise before and during their breakup but this show let me appreciate what a delightful force Nina is on stage.
The show was so upbeat and happy.

I don't like the sticky-carpet rock vibe of the Corner itself but they maintain a reasonable capacity so I've always enjoyed space and a good view of the band.

## [Naked Espresso Bar](http://yelp.com/biz/naked-espresso-bar-melbourne)

Several times I've entered the warmth of Naked Espresso Bar and had my glasses flash opaque with condensation.
It is so nice inside when it's cold out.

I've read their breakfast and brunch menu many times but always gone with one of their jaffles.
These are made with Noisette bread and all feature cheese.
They've also had vegan cupcakes from Mister Nice Guy.

Their coffee menu is extensive featuring blends and single origins that they roast themselves.
I enjoyed their filter which came in a Hario jug along with a small cup of sparkling water.

## [Kinship & Co](http://yelp.com/biz/kinship-and-co-melbourne)

I was drawn into Kinship & Co by their sandwich board promising "jaffles the way your mother made".
For me this was absolutely true: commercial white bread with Heinz baked beans and cheese lightly pressed and served alarmingly hot.
It was wonderfully nostalgic.

They also brew coffee roasted by Five Senses.

## [Snug Public House](http://yelp.com/biz/snug-public-house-brunswick-4)

Cass and I had an unexpected bar crawl through Brunswick to cheer up Tara.
Our first stop was Snug Public House.

Snug had limited beers to choose from but I was happy with Coopers Pale Ale.
We sat in the back of their small garden.

We ate their mushrooms which were crumbed and came with a substantial salad.
Their garlic cheese chips were an entertaining mess.

## [The Alehouse Project](http://yelp.com/biz/the-alehouse-project-brunswick-east)

After the Snug we walked to the Alehouse Project.
They had a great range of beer pouring from their twelve taps.
Their long names were all written on the blackboard along with their style and ABV.

From the Australian, American and Belgian beers and ciders we chose jugs of Brooklyn Lager.
We drank these on the couches in their back room which was surprisingly available on a Friday night.

## [The Alderman](http://yelp.com/biz/the-alderman-brunswick-east)

After Ellen joined us at the Alehouse we moved to the Alderman.
I enjoyed their Negroni.
It's equal parts Campari, gin and vermouth and I think it's excellent but plenty will disagree.

We followed our cocktails with well-priced bottles of sparkling.
The seating was pleasant and pouring for ourselves let it feel homely.

## [Batman Market](http://yelp.com/biz/batman-market-coburg)

Cass and I found Batman Market almost hidden behind a factory that produces combat clothing.
It's a curious location but nice once you're in.

There was a mix of craft and food stalls.
I enjoyed Overdosa's Bombay Burger of spicy fried potato masala in a soft bun and their lentil poppers which came with tamarind chutney.

My favourite stall was Halfpint Vegan Dairy.
They make the "dairy-free buttery spreadable" Butter Me Up as well as pies, sausage rolls and pastries.
I went back for seconds.

## [Brunswick Baths](http://yelp.com/biz/brunswick-city-baths-brunswick)

After envying Cass's membership I went to the Sunday afternoon BodyPump class that is recommended for beginners.
The instructor was excellent and helped me feel confident while I squatted to the Killers and pressed to Katy Perry.

The next day everything hurt.
It continued for a few days after that.
I persisted though and have already tripled the weight I can lift.

I've also improved my running after learning from their Run Club instructors and enjoyed their pools and sauna.
It's a very welcoming place.

## [Savoy Tavern](http://yelp.com/biz/savoy-tavern-melbourne)

Lumo Energy held a team function at the Savoy Tavern and I thought it was pretty appropriate.
It was a big place that was easy to move around and quiet enough to talk.
Some of the patrons looked like they had been keenly waiting the two decades for their favourite bar to reopen.

We drank Little Creatures Bright Ale and White Rabbit Dark Ale.
Their chips were decent but their only substantial vegetarian food was a salad with goat curd.

## [All the King's Men](http://yelp.com/biz/all-the-kings-men-north-melbourne)

I got to All the King's Men on a Saturday six minutes after they had opened and 23 people had already put their name on the blackboard.
Once you've written your name on their blackboard though there are plenty of great cafes around North Melbourne to wait in

This place gave me the first haircut that I enjoyed.
I'm afraid of hairdressers (and would much rather visit a dentist or donate my blood any day) but they have enough loud rock and posters to distract.

Each of the barbers has their own style and strengths but they're all meticulous with clippers and do great fades.
Haircuts finish with a straight-razor neck shave, some cruelty-free styling products and a couple of Warheads.

## [Counter](http://yelp.com/biz/counter-north-melbourne)

I hadn't been back to Auction Rooms for years as their breakfast menu had been all meat and blood.
Since then they've opened Counter across Errol Street.

I liked their vegie brekky bun: zucchini and quinoa hash with green tomatoes, mayonnaise and a fried egg.
They also had a vegetarian filled croissant.

Their filter coffee was ready to go served from a thermos.
It was made with Costa Rican beans that were roasted at Auction Rooms.
