---
layout: post
title:  "Hobart 2014"
date:   2015-06-07T17:25:12+10:00
---

Cass and I celebrated her birthday by visiting Hobart.
I'd been hoping to holiday there for years, imagining it to be a paradise of sea air and black metal.
There were fewer people than I expected and it seemed to rain ceaselessly but I found it beautiful and fun.

## [Quest Savoy Hobart](http://yelp.com/biz/quest-savoy-hobart-hobart-2)

We arrived after reception had closed for the night (9 PM) and were let in by a security guard.
He was wearing a high-visibility jacket and promptly recommended Hobart's 24-hour bottle shop.

I chose the Quest Savoy because their Executive room has a spa.
I take a lot of spas when on holiday and used this one nine times during our four-night stay.
The room also had a fridge which we stocked with Tasmanian sparkling and raspberries and cheese from Farm Gate Market.

## [Mona Ferry](http://yelp.com/biz/mona-ferry-hobart)

The next morning we took the earliest ferry to Mona.
We went with the Posh Pit because it included food and drinks.
The gate attendant surprised us with tickets to a tasting tour of Moorilla winery.

I couldn't specify that we were vegetarian but our canapés and pastries all were save for one with salmon.
They were a neat little breakfast.
Cass convinced our waiter to bring us a second round.

The wait staff dressed in boiler suits and were exceedingly generous.
They even brought me a beer while we were pulling into the dock at Mona.
I drank Moo Brew Pilsner and Pale Ale as well as a posh Moorilla sparkling riesling.

The cruise up the Derwent took less than 30 minutes.
Both there and back I wished it would take longer.

## [Museum of Old and New Art](http://yelp.com/biz/museum-of-old-and-new-art-berriedale)

The brief ferry was enough to feel like I'd arrived at a new island.
We disembarked and walked up the 99 steps to Mona.
It was a windowless fortress covered in orange rust.

Inside an attendant was spotting Tasmanians and reminding them that they receive free entry.
We spiralled down the stairs into the sandstone chamber where we received our Os.

I loved the O.
It's an app running on an iPod Touch, hundreds of Bluetooth beacons and some servers all working together harmoniously.
I used it to learn about the artworks and it captured where I went and what I saw.

My favourite works were Meghan Boody's Poison and Candice Breitz's Queen (A Portrait of Madonna).
I wasn't confident the latter was for the public but behind the unmarked door I found a bright room with beanbags and thirty televisions, each with someone alone singing Madonna's Immaculate Collection on a loop.

We stayed for hours and left as people were gathering for a wedding.
It was a remarkable place with an exceptional approach to how art can be experienced.

## [Moorilla Estate Winery](http://yelp.com/biz/moorilla-estate-winery-hobart)

We took a break from our visit to Mona and toured Moorilla Estate Winery.
Our guide reminded me of Tim Minchin.

With a bottle of Hartz and a wine glass we began in the riesling vineyard outside their cellar door with tastings of their Praxis (newer) styles.
We walked to their winery where our guide poured us sparkling riesling from the vat in which it was fermenting, still warm and sweet.
Then we walked through barrels of wine in their cellar to a room where we tasted their Muse (older) styles.

We finished back at the cellar door with many more tastings including rieslings, pinots, syrah, sauvignon blanc and gewurtztraminer.
It was a generous tour lasting more than two hours.

## [Garagistes](http://yelp.com/biz/garagistes-hobart)

After Mona the place I most wanted to visit was Garagistes.
I reserved two spots as soon as I was able.

We were seated facing each other across a communal table.
They brought us a vegetarian five-course set menu of delicate ingredients with outsized flavour, at times a mere shaving of mushroom or apple.
Several items I had never tasted (brassicas, burdock, oca, lovage, kamut).

Each dish was matched with a sake (either junmai or junmai daiginjo).
I wish more people did this.

## [Farm Gate Market](http://yelp.com/biz/farm-gate-market-hobart)

I was drawn to Farm Gate Market by the reputation of Urban Bounty's pies.
We enjoyed the roast pumpkin, kale and dahl pie and found the cauliflower and blue cheese even tastier.

The small space accommodates quite a few stalls.
We bought some excellent raspberries then a generous amount of cheese from Elgaar Farm who threw in extra to compensate for it crumbling.
Both went wonderfully with a bottle of Jansz later in our apartment.

My highlight was the applecino.
I bought it from someone who reminded me of Quentin Blake's farmer Bean.
It was two apples juiced whole into a cup with a pinch of spices then warmed with a steam wand.
It woke me up better than a coffee.

## [The Nant Whisky Cellar & Bar](http://yelp.com/biz/the-nant-whisky-cellar-and-bar-battery-point)

I was unsure whether Nant was open (it was pretty early) but inside we found an affable bartender alone in the dark.
In front of him were three bottles of Nant whisky which we tried in the recommended order.

The first was from a sherry cask and bottled at 43%.
It was refreshingly bright with a scent of citrus.
The second was a port cask also at 43%.
I found it a bit clumsy and lacking in length.
The third was aged in a tiny 20 litre port cask and served at 63%.
I found this more graceful than the second but we both preferred the first.

## [Jack Greene](http://yelp.com/biz/jack-greene-battery-point)

We sat upstairs which is styled somewhere between a library and a hunting lodge, with iron bars surrounding the staircase and a school desk for two at the window overlooking the port.

Their vegie burger was eggplant fried with cheese, tomato and red onion which I had on Turkish bread.
Their chips were cut thick and cooked well.
We also shared a serve of terribly good onion rings in brown spicy batter.
Even sharing we could not finish them.

They had a good range of tap beers and many more in bottles.
I wish more were from Tasmania.

## [Tricycle Cafe & Bar](http://yelp.com/biz/tricycle-cafe-and-bar-hobart)

Tricycle reminded me of Melbourne.
Unpretentious style, a brief menu of eggs, feta and sourdough, Five Senses coffee and a turntable all hidden away from the main street.

I had their scrambled eggs which were exemplary.
Pale yellow and white, cooked with sparing heat and coloured only by stems of coriander.
Great bread too.

Their drinks menu was twice as long as their food menu which is how I like it.
Their fresh juice of the day was bright and their Bloody Mary came with a wedge of lemon and a bottle of Tobasco on the side.

## [Savoy Baths & Day Spa](http://yelp.com/biz/savoy-baths-and-day-spa-hobart)

Even though our room upstairs had a spa we got in our bathrobes and took a lift down to the Savoy Baths & Day Spa.
I love spas.

We swam around their sizeable pool before hopping between the spas, sauna and steam room.
Their steam room was my favourite but it's the transitions that really make it.
We finished with a couples massage.

They didn't have Hicaps but my masseuse was qualified with Certificate IV in Massage so my health insurance covered half.

## [Preachers](http://yelp.com/biz/preachers-battery-point)

The dips we ate at Preachers were homely and came with thick warm bread.
Their beer-battered mushrooms with honey soy sauce fondly recalled 90s Australian Chinese.

I drank several outstanding Australian beers for the first time including one from a cask while Cass was drinking their rum-charged cider.

After dinner we took our drinks outside where Triple J was being played.
We sat in their bus which had been converted to outdoor furniture, parked at incline with wood screwed into the walls to serve as tables.

## [Pollen Tea Room](http://yelp.com/biz/pollen-tea-room-battery-point)

We discovered Pollen Tea Room while wandering Battery Point.
Its black and white exterior was distinctive and their menu was vegetarian save for a single dish with salmon.

Their banana toast was gorgeous slices of banana with walnuts, honey and yoghurt on bread.
Their chilli had a lovely deep flavour.

Their tea came from Zee Tea and was brewed in a Japanese iron teapot.
I drank the Monk's Blend of green and black tea with jasmine, vanilla and pear.

## [Tasmanian Museum & Art Gallery](http://yelp.com/biz/tasmanian-museum-and-art-gallery-hobart)

The stuffed and mounted dead Thylacines throughout the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery were upsetting.
At least I got to see CC, the puppet cat from the ABC show Hunter.

The art gallery is kinder and had fascinating portraits of Indigenous Australians.

My highlight was the giant cast of a Muttaburrasaurus skeleton outside the doorway.
It was as awesome as any actual fossil I've seen and you can also touch it.

## [Pilgrim Coffee](http://yelp.com/biz/pilgrim-coffee-hobart)

Even after seeing the Mawson's Huts replica I still feel like an explorer for braving a coffee while holidaying.

Pilgrim Coffee rewarded me with a decent long black.
The beans were roasted by 65 Degrees from Melbourne and the double shot was extracted well.

## [Lark Distillery](http://yelp.com/biz/lark-distillery-hobart)

We started our half-day tour of Lark Distillery in the front room of their bar.
Our guide gave us each a bottle of Hartz and a whisky glass.
We were given a pour of a sherry cask whisky at 43% and began an afternoon of stories.

After another two pours we got in a van and were driven to their distillery in the Coal River Valley.
It's a simple setup of two sheds and two hairy coos amongst gorgeous scenery.

Our guide walked us through the process of making whisky, offering us samples of the wort, the wash and the spirits after their first and second distillation.
The latter was a real heavy-hitter.
We then moved to their bond store where we sampled whiskies straight from their 100-litre barrels.

Our guide answered several of my questions with a pour of a new whisky.
On my way out I was invited to taste their latest barrel before it was bottled.

## [Tattersall's Beer and Food Hall](http://yelp.com/biz/tattersalls-beer-and-food-hall-hobart)

We took a solo traveller we met at Lark with us to Tattersall's.
We were lucky to catch them on a Tuesday when all 12 of their taps were half price.

Their range of beer rivalled the best that we found in Hobart.
We enjoyed local, Victorian and Queensland beers including IPAs, porters and a blueberry wheat.
