---
layout: post
title:  "Adelaide 2014"
date:   2015-05-03 22:53:54
---

Cass and I went to Adelaide for the wedding of Matt, Bec and their son Fox.
Their wedding was at Bec's parents' home in Adelaide Hills.
I loved that they chose to involve Fox in their vows.
After the ceremony there was speeches, cheese, ice-cream and bocce.

All of their beer came from the local [Prancing Pony Brewery][].
While I didn't get to visit I did get to drink their Pale, Blonde, Amber, Black and India Red ales as well as a couple of their limited releases.

[Prancing Pony Brewery]: http://prancingponybrewery.com.au

We stayed the night in Hahndorf then came back the next day to swim and talk before we returned home.

## [Est Pizzeria](http://yelp.com/biz/est-pizzeria-adelaide)

I was anxious about dining before the Fringe show that we were soon going to see but from Est Pizzeria I could see the crowd at Rymill and Rundle Park.
It was a really great spot.

After waiting we went upstairs which had the inviting feel of an apartment.
I drank South Australian reds while Cass drank local craft beers from Lobethal Bierhaus.
I loved that their wine list was written in chalk and changed as individual bottles were finished.

We shared a mushroom pizza with smoked scamorza and a potato pizza with gorgonzola and sage.
Both bases were thin and light.

## [Garden Of Unearthly Delights](http://yelp.com/biz/garden-of-unearthly-delights-adelaide)

The Garden of Unearthly Delights is an outdoor carnival of performing artists, food stalls, bars and rides that joins Adelaide Fringe each summer.
It grew from a single tent in 2000 to a sprawl of tents and seating.

The greenery of Rundle Park gave the illusion of the Garden being even larger than it was, leading us on paths around trees and disorienting us with the pretty lights between the leaves.
It was an intriguing atmosphere in which to wander.

We saw Naked Girls Reading.
I'd been following the original Chicago branch in the hopes that a show would reach Australia and was excited to discover that a show coincided with our holiday.
It was organised by Melbournians Frankie Valentine and Vesper White.

On the night we went Frankie was joined by Willow J Conway, Luna Eclipse and Clara Cupcakes (amusingly Vesper's absence was because she was in the bridal party).
Each reading had us laughing with my highlight being Willow J's evocative reading of Frankenstein.
The night ended with Frankie re-enacting Basic Instinct's most famous scene.

## [Hotel Grand Chancellor On Currie](http://yelp.com/biz/hotel-grand-chancellor-on-currie-adelaide)

Hotel Grand Chancellor is a block away from Rundle Mall, the home of the Mall's Balls.

Their service and amenities exceeded my expectations.
Staff were helpful at all hours, the old room was in good condition and the included toiletries were quite nice.

## [The Manna of Hahndorf](http://yelp.com/biz/the-manna-of-hahndorf-hahndorf-2)

The Manna is a motel in the Germanic town of Hahndorf.
It was a short taxi trip from the wedding.
We stayed in a superior room.

Checking in after 7:00 PM was possible but confusing.
We certainly weren't welcomed by the staff member who was working the night shift.

Our room was nice enough but the metal walls offered little insulation from our neighbours who were hotly arguing.

Waking up to Main Street was pleasant though.

## [Beelah Cafe](http://yelp.com/biz/beelah-cafe-hahndorf)

I didn't know what to expect from this small town cafe but it wasn't a customer enquiring "what's the cronut of the day?"

Cronuts are sought-after croissant-doughnut pastries that were invented by a French pâtissier in New York City.
I also found them, of all places, in South Australia, in the small Germanic town of Hahndorf, being sold in a cafe with an Indigenous Australian name.

"Beelah" are native black cockatoos and were featured in photos on their walls.
I imagine they would love cronuts.

For breakfast I had several scrambled eggs over thick bread with a vanilla milkshake.
Everything was as good as I hoped.

## [Coopers Alehouse](http://yelp.com/biz/coopers-alehouse-adelaide-airport)

Coopers Alehouse is a typical airport bar but with better-than-average beer on tap.
We drank their Sparkling Ale and Artisan Reserve while waiting for our flight home.
Their chips were thick and came with aioli.
These too were better than average.

Our bartender was laughably disinterested though.
He didn't acknowledge any of our orders, leaving us in suspense until they eventually arrived.
It was a fitting metaphor for the modern low-cost flight experience.