---
layout: post
title:  "Normcore"
date:   2016-12-31T14:10:45+11:00
---

[Christopher Glazek][]:

> I can't be the first to point this out, Fiona Duncan, but doesn't your NYMag piece confuse [#Normcore][] with #ActingBasic, a separate K-Hole concept? Dressing neutral and normy so you don't stand out is #ActingBasic.
> <mark>#Normcore means you pursue every activity like you're a fanatic of the form.</mark>
> It doesn't really make sense to identify Normcore as a fashion trend -- the point of normcore is that you could dress like a NASCAR mascot for a big race and then switch to raver-wear for a long druggy night at the club.
> <mark>It's about infinitely flexible, sunny appropriation.</mark>
> As K-hole puts it, “You might not understand the rules of football, but you can still get a thrill from the roar of the crowd at the World Cup.
> Normcore moves away from a coolness that relies on difference to a post-authenticity coolness that opts in to sameness.
> BUT INSTEAD OF APPROPRIATING AN AESTHETICIZED VERSION OF THE MAINSTREAM [i.e. Acting Basic], IT JUST COPS TO THE SITUATION AT HAND."
> I'm raising this because Acting Basic, while certainly a recognizable trend, isn't that new or exciting of a concept.
> Normcore, on the other hand -- the real version -- is genuinely new and consequential.
> Normcore describes personalities, not clothes.
> Its icon is not Preston Chaunsumlit, it's James Franco.
>
> Acting Basic,a temptation to which the best of us sometimes succumb, is snotty and superseded -- the bad old days of downtown cool.
> <mark>Normcore is what comes after: fresh, pozzy, net-native, living every day as a tourist, unbothered by the politics of appropriation</mark> -- and probably a little naive about politics in general.
> It really is a profound and illuminating concept, but it's sad to think that during its viral moment it's been reinterpreted into something pedestrian and regressive.

[Christopher Glazek]: https://facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=10100460579561664
[#Normcore]: http://khole.net/issues/youth-mode
