---
layout: post
title:  "Maui 2014"
date:   1970-01-01 00:00:00
---

Cass and I shared our first overseas Christmas in Hawai‘i.
It was only the second time that I had lived a Christmas Day without visiting my grandparents at their home in Upfield.

We began in Maui.
natural beauty

## [Hertz](http://yelp.com/biz/hertz-rent-a-car-kahului-maui)

I booked a car for our visit using Hertz's website.
I chose the cheapest option which they called Economy (Kia Rio or similar).

We received a Nissan Versa.
The salesperson aggressively tried to upsell us to a Corvette convertible at what she claimed was a significantly reduced rate but her phrasing was plainly deceptive.
I suspect we would have been surprised by our bill had we agreed.

I enjoyed the Versa though.
It worked and had an auxiliary input jack.
We drove it south to Makena and La Perouse Bay, west to Lāhainā and east to Hāna over the ridiculous Hāna Highway.

Pickup and return were quick, airport shuttles were frequent and it was easily the cheapest rental available.

## [Flatbread Company](http://yelp.com/biz/flatbread-company-paia)

Flatbread Company was pleasantly hot and humid.
We sat in the rear courtyard away from the brick oven and could still feel its presence.

The vegetarian special on the blackboard was a pizza with beets and blue cheese but instead we received one with eggplant and mozzarella.
It wasn't what we had ordered but it was too tasty to send back.
The pizza was crusted in semolina and appropriately cut into strips.

Their vegetables were sourced from local farms.
They also had seasonal beers from Maui Brewing Company and Stone Brewing Company on tap but I was still getting the hang of driving on the right so was unwilling to brave their 9% ABV.

## [Maui Coast Hotel](http://yelp.com/biz/maui-coast-hotel-kihei)

We stayed six nights at Maui Coast Hotel which faces Charley Young Beach in the middle of Kihei.
Our Deluxe room came with Wi-Fi, a fridge and a furnished balcony.
The bathroom was a little small to share but that didn't matter.

We spent some of every evening in their pool and spa.
Beside the pool is a bar where we had Lava Flows, Mai Tais, Kona Fire Rock Pale Ale and mozzarella sandwiches.

Every staff member we met was helpful.
Their concierge hosted an orientation and breakfast where we learned about Maui's microclimates, Haleakalā and Hāna Highway while eating pastries and fruit.

Above their restaurant was a gym with resistance machines and some nice treadmills.
We also borrowed their bikes and rode them up and down South Kihei Road.

## [Maui BBQ & Grill](http://yelp.com/biz/maui-bbq-and-grill-kihei)

Maui BBQ & Grill shares a courtyard with restaurants where you can drink and on some evenings hear live music.

I enjoyed a Widmer Omission IPA which is remarkable given that it's a gluten-free beer.

## [Taqueria Cruz](http://yelp.com/biz/taqueria-cruz-kihei)

Our first time at Taqueria Cruz we had poblano raja tacos then returned for their poblano raja quesadillas.
Both were quite different but featured the same fresh poblano peppers which I usually only find dried (as ancho).

Their courtyard was BYO so we drank cans of Maui Big Swell IPA that we had brought from Aloha Discount Liquor.

## [Maluaka Point Little Beach](http://yelp.com/biz/maluaka-point-little-beach-kihei)

We walked along Big Beach and followed a man who was carrying his own drum until we discovered the entrance to Little Beach.
It's a wall of volcanic rock with sand-covered steps at Big Beach's northern end.
At the top of the wall before you turn to the steps you can see a formation in the shape of a howling wolf's head.

Once we were on the other side I took off my shorts and enjoyed lying on the sand with the many other nude people.
As a redhead I had to be exceedingly diligent with sunscreen but it was otherwise very relaxing.

The sand was fine and white and the water was clear with waves that broke over our heads.
I found it naturally beautiful and appreciated it even more for its inclusivity.

We were offered Blueberry cannabis indica and LSD by someone standing at the entrance at midday.
The space was lawless and shameless and I loved it.

## [Charley Young Beach](http://yelp.com/biz/charley-young-beach-kihei)

Charley Young Beach is across the road from Maui Coast Hotel where we were staying.
It was so easy to walk over wearing bathers and thongs (which locals call "slippers").

There was 20 kilometres of ocean between us and the nearest land and few people around us.
The trade winds kept waves arriving steadily which calmly dissipated before reaching the shore.
I found it serene yet also mildly menacing having been raised to never swim outside the flags on Australian beaches.

## [ABC Store](http://yelp.com/biz/abc-store-kihei)

I went to this ABC Store every day we were in Maui.
It was very convenient being a three minute walk from our hotel and open until 11:00 PM.

We bought cans of Maui Big Swell IPA and Mana Wheat, Ocean Vodka, Maui Style potato chips, chocolate-covered macadamias, Kona coffee and petrol for our car.

## [Joy's Place](http://yelp.com/biz/joys-place-kihei-2)

We ate at Joy's Place several times because their small cafe had plenty of vegetarian and vegan items.
Enough that I was surprised to learn that their turkey was actually turkey rather than a vegan imitation.

Their breakfast burrito was a red tomato tortilla filled with vegie chilli, cheese and onions.
I liked the pattie they used for their vegie burger and that it came with a side of mac and cheese.

We also had their smoothies.
I enjoyed their Berry Green Protein Power (hemp seeds, kale, berries, banana and apple) and the Maui Fruit (pineapple, banana, passionfruit, orange and apple) even more.

## [Kaihalulu Red Sand Beach](http://yelp.com/biz/kaihalulu-red-sand-beach-hana)

We saw a T-shirt in Lāhainā that aptly described the road to Hāna as "Turn left then right. Repeat 617 times for 52 miles and three hours … Beware of blind turns and 56 bridges."
The road also took us through microclimates of rain and reduced visibility.
I had a great time navigating it in our rented Nissan Versa.

Once we arrived in Hāna we parked beside the private property that leads to Kaihalulu Bay.
The entrance was unmarked and unwelcoming but there were no signs prohibiting our entry.
The path was narrow with a steep drop beside it and made of slippery cinders which we carefully walked over in our thongs.

Red Sand Beach is dark red from the iron in the eroding cinder cone.
In front of it is a small reef that is separated from the bay by a natural sea wall.
Despite this the waves were still fierce and they dragged us and pushed us over.

It was a beautiful space unlike anywhere I had been before.
A few people were topless or nude and everyone seemed keenly aware of where on Earth they were.

## [Coconut Glen's Ice-Cream](http://yelp.com/biz/coconut-glens-ice-cream-nahiku)

On our way back from Hāna and Kaihalulu Bay we stopped at Coconut Glen's Ice-Cream.
It was raining heavily but an ice-cream stand in the middle of Hāna Highway was too intriguing to miss.

I had their original which was made from coconut milk and flecked with pieces of their toasted coconut candy.
It's vegan.

We also sampled their coconut candy from a jar after the staff compared it to crack.

## [Memphis Belle Coffee House](http://yelp.com/biz/memphis-belle-coffee-house-kihei)

I loved the coffee at Memphis Belle.
I chose Columbian beans that were roasted to my taste (lightly) by Flight Coffee in Wellington and brewed with a Chemex.
They also had V60, cold drip and espresso available.

We ate their bagels which were topped with cream cheese, avocado and tomato.
The latter were bought from the farmers' market next door after we had placed our order.

## [Ahihi Kina‘u Natural Area Reserve](http://yelp.com/biz/ahihi-kinau-natural-area-reserve-wailea)

We drove past Makena and private fences that reminded me of the Jurassic Park Visitor Centre to Ahihi Kina‘u.
It's a natural area reserve beside La Perouse Bay.

The reserve was mostly fields of black lava.
We walked along it and stopped at the many coves that had formed, each filled with sand or crashing waves.
The lava was ʻaʻā (the jagged kind) so I was glad to be wearing runners.

Beyond the fields was a forest with trees that had been levelled by the coastal winds.
I was fascinated to see the impact of weather so plainly.

## [Maui Gelato](http://yelp.com/biz/maui-gelato-kihei-2)

We shared a Hana Bay waffle which was topped with bananas, macadamias, whipped cream and caramel.
The waffle was made from batter while we waited and came with maple and coconut syrups on the side.

As we waited the radio was turned up so that we could hear an emergency weather warning.
High winds and flooding risk for all islands.
No one seemed fazed though.

## [Monkeypod Kitchen](http://yelp.com/biz/monkeypod-kitchen-by-merriman-kihei)

Hawaii Regional Cuisine began in 1991 combining Hawaiian ingredients with diverse ethnic traditions.
One of the founding chefs Peter Merriman created Monkeypod Kitchen.

We started with their hand-cut fries which came with both mustard aioli and house-made ketchup.
There were plenty of beers on tap of which I had a North Coast Scrimshaw Pilsner and an Oskar Blues Dale's Pale Ale.
I hadn't had a Dale's since North Carolina.

I followed with the dry mein which had Tamashiro tofu, broccoli and bean sprouts with an exceptional brown sauce lifted by mint, coriander, peanuts and chilli.
I also tasted Cass's gnocchi which was crisply finished in a pan with chard, Hamakua mushrooms, tomato and chèvre.

We finished with their banana cream pie and a French press of Maui coffee.

## Haleakalā National Park 4

Highest point

## Kamaole Beach

## South Shore Tiki Lounge 4

Fire Rock Pale Ale

Vegan burger with chips

## Christmas Brunch Cruise

## Kihei Caffe

I had the vegie scramble which was a short

## [Sammy's Beach Bar & Grill](http://yelp.com/biz/sammys-beach-bar-and-grill-kahului)

We finished our trip to Maui at Sammy's Beach Bar & Grill.
It was the only place in Kahului Airport serving coffee and beer in the morning.

I had a Goose Island IPA and a Maui Bikini Blonde while we waited for our plane.
The music sounded familiar yet unrecognisable.